

===== PAGE 1 =====

February
2026
2025 Annual Progress Report &
Strategic Energy Plan Implementation Year Three

===== PAGE 2 =====

From the Chief Sustainability Officer
The Office of Sustainability and Resilience (OSR) enjoyed a busy and highly
impactful 2025 with climate resilience remaining a top priority across all
areas of our work. This progress report highlights key accomplishments
and tracks the implementation of the City’s Strategic Energy Plan.
Two of the year’s most significant milestones include the completion of a
comprehensive, citywide tree canopy assessment, and the creation of an
equity-based prioritization tool developed in close collaboration with a
specialized consultant. This tool strengthens our ability to make data-driven and equitable
decisions by directing resources to neighborhoods with the greatest need. It also addresses
the urban heat island effect, improves air quality, and advances Greensboro’s climate
resilience goals.
Collaboration was a defining theme throughout 2025 and reinforced how sustainability
and resilience work together to build awareness and shape a future-leaning Greensboro.
OSR participated in the state-led Planning for Extreme Heat Cohort, which helps local
governments develop heat action plans using the NC Heat Action Plan Toolkit. We
strengthened the City’s approach to addressing rising heat impacts thanks to expert-led
sessions, peer networking, and technical resources.
The experience also led to an interlocal taskforce with Guilford County and the City of High
Point. Together, we completed a heat action plan and a County-wide extreme temperatures
action plan that includes cold-weather preparedness. Building on this work, the City
secured a $25,000 grant from the Duke Energy Foundation. It allocated $10,000 of the grant
to the Community Safety Department for essential supplies during extreme temperatures,
and the remaining fund are supporting tree-planting efforts. The City also received $20,000
from the National Environmental & Education Foundation to partner with local schools on a
community-centered tree planting initiative.
Our partners, community advocates, and volunteers contributed significantly to these
accomplishments. We look forward to strengthening existing relationships and expanding
our network as we remain, “In the Mix for 2026,” and continue to lead with climate resilience
at the forefront of our efforts.
Yours in service,
S. Shree Dorestant, DM
Chief Sustainability Officer
City of Greensboro
2

===== PAGE 3 =====

From the Chief Sustainability Officer OSR Highlights
Tree Canopy Assessment by the Numbers As of December 2025, the Leave the Leaves campaign
received 391 pledges from residents and businesses
In 2025, Greensboro completed its first
to leave or mulch fallen leaves, representing nearly
comprehensive tree canopy assessment since 2009.
6,500 trees.
Defined as the layer of tree cover in a city or urban
area formed by the collective spread of tree branches
and leaves, the canopy indicates a city’s available
green space and helps with planning and urban
sustainability efforts. A subsequent equity study
identified planting areas.
Explore canopy data, track changes over time, learn
about tree benefits, and participate in future canopy
studies at canopy.greensboro-nc.gov.
6 million 39,000 44%
Trees in Acres of Canopy Coverage Student Engagement
Greensboro Canopy in the City
OSR provided presentations and field trips for
students at the middle school, high school, and
Sustainable Landscapes Project
collegiate level throughout 2025. These partnerships
In 2025, the Greensboro Sustainable Landscapes included a semester of programming with B’nai
Project hosted five free workshops, engaging nearly Shalom Day School, a community event led by
100 community members. Workshops covered students from the University of North Carolina at
topics such as beneficial bugs, composting, nature Greensboro’s Environmental Education class, and a
photography, and DIY wildlife habitats. week-long science summer camp for middle school
girls through Guilford Creek Week.
OSR Outreach Engagement
Top-Four Community
Engagement Events
City of Greensboro
1,500
Earth Day Celebration
4,046 689 Recycle Rodeo
78 Trash Bash
individuals
Sustainable
75
Landscapes Project
3

===== PAGE 4 =====

NEEF NC Arbor Day Tree Planting
The National Environmental Education Foundation OSR partnered with Greensboro Public Libraries,
awarded OSR a $20,000 Greening STEM Grant Greensboro Parks and Recreation, and Greensboro
for the period of October 1, 2025, through June Beautiful to host a series of free educational
1, 2026. The funding supports environmental programming and plant a dozen trees at McGirt-
education programming for middle school students Horton Branch Library.
in Greensboro, using STEM-based instruction to
enhance learning inside and outside the classroom.
Turn Down the Lights
OSR’s Energy Management Unit spent a portion
of 2025 investigating and identifying saving
opportunities in different City departments by
The grant also supports tree planting by participating
examining abandoned energy accounts. Abandoned
students in 2026. As of December 2025, 16 middle
accounts are utility accounts at locations that the City
school students are registered in the program.
of Greensboro no longer owns, or the utility service is
Earth Day no longer necessary.
OSR hosted the City’s Earth Day celebration in The study found these accounts cost the City
April 2025 at Keeley Park. The event welcomed $294,609 over the course of four years. It also
approximately 1,500 guests to engage with over 50 showed how departments could recover a combined
community exhibitors, as well as free educational $109,969 in direct savings through disputing
activities for children and adults. The event featured incorrect billing amounts, as well as closely
the presentation of the 2025 Live Green Awards, monitoring new service requests.
which honor sustainability leaders who serve the
EECBG Water/Energy Kits
Greensboro community.
OSR received funding from the U.S. Department
of Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant
Program to provide over 1,000 free water and energy
conservation kits. Residents can sign up for a kit via
the GSO WaterWise portal for city water users. As of
December 2025, 721 residents have registered for a
kit.
4

===== PAGE 5 =====

Trash Bash
OSR Staff &
In March 2025, OSR partnered with Reconsidered
Goods, a creative reuse store and nonprofit CSC Members
organization, to host a Trash Bash competition.
At this event, four teams of local artists competed Sustainability & Resilience Team
to create art installations using only repurposed
materials. Shree Dorestant, DM
Chief Sustainability Officer
Katie Farina
Environmental Services Analyst
Michelle Gill-Moffat
Sustainability Analyst
John Hendricks
Sustainability Analyst (GIS)
Sergey Kobelev
Energy Manager
Richard Lovett
Environmental Compliance Support Manager
Sarah Montgomery
Telematics Pilot Program: Fleet Efficiency Study Environmental Compliance Specialist
In July, OSR started a partnership with the fleet
Eddie Raynard
technology company Samsara, to monitor the idle
Environmental Compliance Coordinator
time and use of City vehicles. This one-year pilot
program involves installing telematic devices in 100 John Ridge
vehicles across seven departments. Telematic devices Landfill Technician
collect real-time data to evaluate fuel efficiency,
Jeff Sovich, AICP
idling, driving behaviors, and other information.
Sustainability Planning Administrator
The data is analyzed to identify opportunities to
right-size the fleet and transition to alternative-fuel
Michael Szychowicz
vehicles as lease periods end.
Landfill Specialist
As of December, 2025, initial findings showed the 100
Gregory Williams
study vehicles accumulated more than 5,000 hours
Energy Program Coordinator
of idle time, approximately 50% of the vehicles' total
operating time. This idling time consumed roughly
3,000 gallons of fuel, at a cost of nearly $10,000. 2025 Community Sustainability Council
Following the study’s completion in Summer 2026,
Conor Baker, Co-Chair
full data from the study vehicles will be analyzed
Andrew Randall, Vice Chair
to identify specific action items. Examples may
include creating idling reduction training required Melissa Bullins
for all authorized City fleet users, identifying initial
Sheeba Dawood
candidates for replacement with hybrid or electric
Nicole Gaines
vehicles, and developing a strategy to expand
telematic deployment to the full City fleet. Eric Ireland
Jacques Pierre
Will Yearns
5

===== PAGE 6 =====

Strategic Energy Plan Implementation
SEP Resolution Directives Progress
In 2022, the Greensboro City Council approved the reductions in energy use, and help to identify the
Strategic Energy Plan (SEP), which addresses the City optimal rates for each of the City’s approximately
of Greensboro’s Resolution 19-0770, to provide a plan 1,100 electrical service accounts with Duke Energy.
for municipal operations to transition to 100 percent
DIRECTIVE 8
renewable energy by 2040 The following section of
the Annual Progress Report provides status updates
on each recommendation outlined in the City’s Prepare an updated GHG
Strategic Energy Plan. These updates reflect measurable
inventory every two years.
progress, key milestones achieved, and areas where
implementation is ongoing.
Since the establishment of the Office of Sustainability
STATUS: In Progress
and Resilience in 2022, significant strides have
been made toward advancing the Plan’s goals. Now
In December 2025, OSR executed a contract with
approaching the five-year implementation marker, the
consulting firm Fresh Coast Climate Solutions to
Office is well underway in executing the recommended
prepare updated Greenhouse Gas inventories for
strategies, coordinating across departments, and
2022, 2023, and 2024, at both the community-wide
integrating energy efficiency and sustainability
and municipal operations levels. These inventories
practices into City operations.
will use widely accepted protocols for greenhouse
This progress demonstrates the City’s continued gas reporting and validation. The resulting emissions
commitment to reducing energy consumption, calculations will measure progress toward the SEP’s
lowering operational costs, improving resilience, and emissions reduction goals, and as a key component
advancing long-term environmental stewardship. in Greensboro’s effort to recertify in the LEED for
Cities program. This project is expected to be
DIRECTIVE 4
completed by June 2026. The contractor will also
train OSR staff to prepare future inventories in-house.
Recommend practices and
tools to measure avoided costs DIRECTIVE 9
and return on investment
Publish an annual
resulting from implementation
progress report.
of renewable energy projects.
STATUS: Completed STATUS: Ongoing
In September 2025, OSR awarded a contract to
The first annual progress report was published
the consulting firm Nimble Energy to develop a
in March 2024. This document is the third annual
comprehensive energy management and data
progress report. OSR will continue to publish progress
analysis platform. The development of the software
reports annually throughout SEP’s implementation.
system is essentially complete, with fine-tuning
Corresponds to Prioritized Action 28.
and customization of the interface in progress. This
system will provide advanced tools that will identify
energy-efficiency measures, enable significant
6

===== PAGE 7 =====

Organization-Wide Recommendations Progress
RECOMMENDATION 1 RECOMMENDATION 2
Clean energy audit/installation/
The City should establish a
maintenance contracts will
Sustainability Office.
give priority to Historically
Underutilized Businesses
STRATEGY 1.1 Approve and fund creation of a (HUBs) and Minority and
Sustainability Office.
Women Business Enterprises
STRATEGY 1.2 Establish and fill Chief (MWBEs).
Sustainability Officer position.
STRATEGY 1.3 Develop the Sustainability
Office’s Year 1 work plan.
STRATEGY 1.2 Energy-focused Requests for
Proposals should contain language
indicating a preference to work with
STATUS: Completed
a HUB or a MWBE.
STRATEGY 2.2 The City’s MWBE Office will offer
Dr. S. Shree Dorestant was hired as Chief
workshops on obtaining HUB/
Sustainability Officer on June 1, 2022, effectively
MWBE certification.
establishing the Office of Sustainability and
Resilience (OSR) within the City’s Executive
Department. On July 1, 2023, the OSR was expanded STATUS: Realigned
with an internal employee transfer of 10 staff
In 2025, the City’s MWBE Office was renamed the
positions from the Engineering and Inspections, Field
Office of Business Opportunity (OBO), with the
Operations (now known as Solid Waste & Recycling),
mission of “providing equal opportunities for all
Parks and Recreation, and Planning departments.
businesses, including those owned by minorities,
women, and small businesses, to participate in the
City's contracting processes for goods, services,
construction, and professional services.” With this
restructuring, the OBO maintains its focus on
creating contracting opportunities for the local
business community, shifting from race or gender
as a preference criterion to criteria that prioritize
small businesses. Accordingly, Recommendation 2
and its strategies will be realigned for consistency.
7

===== PAGE 8 =====

RECOMMENDATION 3
Ensure energy decisions are STRATEGY 3.3 Prioritize outreach and assistance
to impacted and vulnerable
made in a way that promotes
communities to encourage
a just transition to renewable more community participation,
determine the impact of energy
energy for all and prioritizes
projects, and educate residents on
vulnerable communities. energy and water conservation.
STATUS: Ongoing
OSR has started using the equity prioritization tool to
STRATEGY 3.1 Establish criteria to identify
prioritize outreach and assistance to impacted and
Greensboro’s most impacted and
vulnerable communities. Corresponds to Prioritized
vulnerable communities.
Action 7.
STRATEGY 3.2 Identify the most impacted and
vulnerable communities.
STRATEGY 3.5 Prioritize vulnerable communities
STATUS: Complete when rolling out individual parts
of the Energy Plan, i.e., building
The Keeping the Green in Greensboro: Tree Canopy and
retrofits, new facilities, etc.
Equity Prioritization Project developed a Geographic
Information Systems (GIS)-based equity prioritization STATUS: Ongoing
tool, which helped identify and prioritize Greensboro’s
OSR will prioritize tree plantings, education, and
most impacted and vulnerable communities.
outreach efforts in communities identified as the most
The resulting analysis, reports, dashboards, and story
impacted and vulnerable. OSR will also continue to
maps were curated into an ArcGIS hub site available
focus grant applications and energy-related projects
at: https://canopy.greensboro-nc.gov/. Launched in
in (or to benefit) the most impacted and vulnerable
November, the hub boasts features that demonstrate:
communities. Corresponds to Prioritized Action 8.
• the many benefits of trees
• how to identify, plant, and
map trees
• the impacts of tree canopy
on Greensboro’s history and
neighborhoods
• how the city’s canopy has
changed since 1984
Corresponds to Prioritized
Action 4.
8

===== PAGE 9 =====

RECOMMENDATION 4 RECOMMENDATION 5
All new and substantially The City fleet should be
renovated City-owned comprised of zero-emission
buildings will meet green vehicles by 2040.
building standards.
STRATEGY 5.1 Create a Sustainable Fleet
Policy.
STRATEGY 4.1 Use the ANSI/ASHRAE/USGBC/
IES Standard 189.1, Standard for
STATUS: In progress
the Design of High-Performance
Green Buildings except Low- The OSR received $314,150 in December 2024 from
Rise Residential Buildings (or a the US Department of Energy’s Energy Efficiency
comparable standard) for all new Conservation Block Grant program. Among other
and substantially renovated City- projects, this award will fund the development of a
owned buildings. comprehensive fleet efficiency study and transition
plan, which began in 2025.
STATUS: Ongoing A one-year pilot study of 100 City vehicles began
in July 2025. The study installed telematic devices
During 2025, OSR staff reviewed Technical Review
that gather data on the frequency and duration
Committee sketch plans for development on one
of use, and other operational characteristics. This
City-owned site (the Greensboro Science Center
data will be analyzed to understand vehicles’ fuel
Expansion Project) and recommended the use of
efficiency, idling time, usage, suitability, and driver
applicable Energy Star and ISO 50000 certifications
behavior. The analysis will provide the background
(or other comparable standards). OSR staff also
for developing a comprehensive fleet management
participated in the project scoping and development
and transition plan.
process for the Mitchell Water Treatment Plan
Expansion and Advanced Treatment for Emerging The data will also be compared with similar data
Contaminants project, and recommended the use of gathered by telematic devices (from at least
applicable Energy Star and ISO 50000 certifications three other manufacturers) previously installed
(or other comparable standards). in approximately 300 additional City vehicles, to
identify a single telematic supplier for the entire
fleet, a key strategy of the fleet management and
transition plan.
Initial data suggest the City vehicles involved in this
study idled approximately 50% of the time their
engines were running.
9

===== PAGE 10 =====

RECOMMENDATION 6
Establish a policy to achieve STRATEGY 6.3 Focus planting efforts in vulnerable
communities, which have limited or
no net loss of the tree canopy
no tree canopy.
throughout the City, for
improved air quality, reduced STATUS: Ongoing
urban heat island effect, and The portion of the grant funding dedicated to
purchasing trees was rescinded by the federal
ongoing carbon sequestration.
government. Accordingly, OSR is pursuing other
funding for trees. In August, OSR received a
$25,000 grant from the Duke Energy Foundation,
STRATEGY 6.1 Collaborate with Greensboro
$15,000 of which will purchase trees. In September,
Beautiful, Sierra Club, the City
OSR received a $20,000 grant from the National
Planning Department, City Arborist,
Environmental Education Foundation to purchase
the City Housing & Neighborhood
trees and conduct educational programming related
Development, the NeighborWoods
to trees.
Program, and other stakeholders
to develop a 20-year strategy to OSR coordinated three tree planting events in 2025,
maintain the tree canopy. which added 52 trees of native species to areas
identified by the equity prioritization tool. The
STATUS: In Progress department will organize additional plantings in
2026.
The CSC has relaunched its Tree Canopy Taskforce to
facilitate collaboration on maintaining Greensboro's
tree canopy. OSR held two community meetings
in 2025 to share the data about the Tree Canopy
Assessment, to begin the public conversation.
STRATEGY 6.2 Conduct a baseline tree canopy
audit, followed by an update
every five years.
STATUS: Complete
The Keeping the Green in Greensboro: Tree Canopy
and Equity Prioritization Project completed an
updated study, which found that 44% of the City’s
land area is covered by tree canopy. The project also
developed a GIS-based equity prioritization tool to
guide the selection of future tree-planting locations
in Greensboro’s underserved areas. In addition, the
resulting analysis, reports, dashboards, and story
maps were curated into an ArcGIS hub site (https://
canopy.greensboro-nc.gov/). Launched in November,
the hub boasts features that demonstrate:
• the many benefits of trees
• how to identify, plant, and map trees
• the impacts of tree canopy on Greensboro’s
history and neighborhoods
• how the city’s canopy has changed since 1984
10

===== PAGE 11 =====

RECOMMENDATION 7 RECOMMENDATION 8
Develop an Energy and Water Review current vehicle and
Education Program for all City equipment purchase/lease
staff. process for potential efficiency
improvements.
STRATEGY 7.1 People & Culture Department
development of three courses:
STRATEGY 8.1 Evaluate departmental sharing
Electricity Conservation, Water
of specialized vehicles and
Conservation, and Eco-Driving.
infrequently used equipment.
STATUS: Initiated
STATUS: In Progress
Staff in the Equipment Services Division, the People
Staff from the OSR and Equipment Services
& Culture Department, and the OSR are researching
Division of the Financial & Administrative Services
and scoping for the development of an internal
Department discussed closer evaluations of the
idling-reduction training course. Results from the
vehicle inventory, equipment purchases, and lease
vehicle telematic pilot study will inform additional
processes. Analysis of these issues will be included
efforts to develop this course.
in the aforementioned fleet efficiency study and the
comprehensive fleet management and transition
plan, slated to begin in 2026.
11

===== PAGE 12 =====

Energy Goals, Strategies, and Actions Progress
ENERGY USE BY DEPARTMENT
Water Resources Department Transportation & Transit Departments
GOAL 2 GOAL 2
Reduce electricity demand by Increase LED streetlamp
40% from 2007 to 2025. conversion by 5% per year.
STRATEGY 2.1 Increase equipment efficiency. STRATEGY 1.1 Increase the conversion of street
lighting to LED.
A2.1.1 Audit water and wastewater
equipment. A1.1.1 Work with Duke Energy to ensure
conversion meets the yearly goal.
A2.1.2 Implement efficiency measures
suggested by audit. STATUS: Ongoing
STATUS: Ongoing The Greensboro Transit Agency (GTA) was a division
of the Transportation Department (GDOT) until 2023,
Preliminary figures put electricity use by the Water
when it became a separate department. Preliminary
Resources Department at 69,845 megawatt-hours
figures put the two departments’ combined electricity
(MWh) in 2025, a 2.0% increase since 2019. In May,
use at 7,409 MWh in 2025, a 70.8% decrease from
the department introduced the GSO WaterWise
2019. GDOT works with Duke Energy to coordinate
Portal, supported by the City’s system-wide upgrade
the LED conversion of the company’s more than
to smart meters. GSO WaterWise offers customers
27,400 streetlamps and other public outdoor lighting
customized usage alerts, access to near real-time
units. LED streetlamp conversion data for 2025 was
water use data 24/7, enhanced customer service, and
not available for inclusion in this report. However,
personalized water conservation tips. An extensive
data on the energy used by Greensboro’s streetlamps
outreach campaign ensured widespread awareness
show LED conversions are having a significant impact.
of the portal and its features. In 2025, Water
Total energy consumption by streetlamps dropped
Resources and the OSR collaborated to distribute 721
from 18,276 MWh in 2022 to 1,952 MWh in 2025 – a
water and energy conservation kits to Greensboro
reduction of 89.3%. Corresponds to Prioritized
residents registered in GSO WaterWise. The kits were
Action 21.
funded through the City’s federal Energy Efficiency
and Conservation Block Grant award. Corresponds to
Prioritized Action 24.
12

===== PAGE 13 =====

Buildings Managed by Police Department
Engineering & Inspections GOAL 1
GOAL 1
Reduce gasoline consumption
by 5% per year.
Reduce electricity demand by
40% from 2007 to 2025.
STRATEGY 1.2 Fleet conversion to electric vehicles.
STRATEGY 1.1 Increase building energy efficiency in
STATUS: In Progress
First-Tier buildings.
A1.1.1 Perform energy audits on buildings. The Police Department purchased 32 new, hybrid
Ford Explorer Interceptors to replace existing internal
A1.1.2 Implement efficiency measures
combustion vehicles, and intends to replace its
suggested by audit.
prisoner transport van with an electric vehicle (EV).
OSR staff works with the Equipment Services Division
STATUS: In Progress
to identify opportunities to replace the least-efficient
Preliminary figures put the total electricity use in vehicles with hybrid or EV models where practical.
the City’s buildings at 45,576 MWh in 2025, a 1.0%
increase since 2019. OSR contracted with Systems
Contractors, Inc. (SCI) to audit the City’s 10-highest
energy-using buildings and recommend energy
conservation measures. The Level 1 audits identified
needed maintenance and corrective measures,
which SCI suggested could provide more-detailed
Level 2 audits. OSR is working to carry out these
projects and identify needed funding. Additionally,
in October, OSR encouraged City staff to conserve
energy and appropriately schedule major energy-
consuming activities to coordinate with Duke Energy’s
non-summer, seasonal time-of-use electricity rates.
Corresponds to Prioritized Action 2.
13

===== PAGE 14 =====

Transportation & Community Incentives Progress
Transit Departments GOAL 1
GOAL 1
Incentivize Greensboro residents
and businesses to achieve
Reduce diesel consumption by
similar progress on Greenhouse
5% per year.
Gas (GHG) reduction, energy
efficiency, and renewable
STRATEGY 1.3 Fleet conversion to electric vehicles.
energy similar to the City’s
STATUS: In Progress improvements.
Implementation of the Greensboro Transit Agency’s
(GTA) zero-emissions fleet transition plan is in STRATEGY 1.2 Remove obstacles to clean, renewable
progress. GTA purchased three new, Gillig battery- energy installation, and energy-
electric buses – one 40-foot model and two 35-foot efficiency projects.
models. It also purchased two new 60-kilowatt, STATUS: Initiated
Heliox portable chargers. GTA anticipates these
The OSR received $314,150 in December 2024 from
acquisitions will help reduce its annual diesel
the US Department of Energy’s Energy Efficiency
consumption.
Conservation Block Grant Program. The award is
funding a comprehensive fleet efficiency study and
transition plan; a water and energy conservation
outreach program; a study to identify buildings
to upgrade to net-zero energy and purchase
equipment for ongoing energy management; and a
comprehensive greenhouse gas inventory.
14

===== PAGE 15 =====

Prioritized Actions Progress
IMMEDIATE ACTIONS (YEARS 1-5) ACTION 24
Items lacking significant progress during 2025 are See Water Resources Department, Goal 2 on
not included. The items listed below are addressed page 12.
earlier in the report:
ACTION 28
ACTION 2 See Directive 9 on page 6.
See Buildings Managed by Engineering &
ACTION 15
Inspections, Goal 1 on page 13.
Install energy conservation measures and a new
ACTION 4 roof at the Central Library.
See Recommendation 3, Strategy 3.1 on page 8.
STATUS: In Progress
ACTION 7
The Central Library’s new roof was installed in
See Recommendation 3, Strategy 3.3 on page 8.
2025. OSR is identifying funding to execute the
ACTION 8 needed maintenance and corrective measures
identified through the library’s Level 1 building
See Recommendation 3, Strategy 3.4 on page 8.
energy audit.
ACTION 21
See Transportation & Transit Departments, Goal 2
on page 12.

===== PAGE 16 =====

www.greensboro-nc.gov/sustainability
PO Box 3136 • Greensboro, NC 27402-3136