

===== PAGE 1 =====

March 2024
Office of Sustainability & Resilience
2023 Annual Progress Report &
Strategic Energy Plan Implementation Year One

===== PAGE 2 =====

From the Chief Sustainability Officer
We are excited to provide this inaugural progress report to
inform the community about the progression of the City of
Greensboro’s Strategic Energy Plan (SEP) and share highlights of
the Office of Sustainability and Resilience (OSR) from the 2023
calendar year. The first year of implementing the SEP and the
management of the City’s new OSR has been rewarding and
productive.
The office has grown in number from one to 11 full-time staff, who were
transferred from four City departments. We’ve moved at a faster pace since
this expansion, with robust education and outreach opportunities, effective
collaborations, and a broader commitment of investing in the delivery of the SEP’s
goals, strategies, and recommendations. We aspire to be the best mid-sized city in
the US, renowned for our green spaces, multi-modal transportation options, vast
energy efficiency measures, and economic growth opportunities.
From a critical worldview, there is too much at stake. There is global upheaval,
climate-related catastrophes, energy and food crises, an ongoing pandemic,
and many other issues that challenge the transformational change needed to
thrive. This is why the OSR, in partnership with other departments of the City,
is accelerating our efforts to collaboratively address the gaps within our local
government operations. We can only hope that our actions will help to further
transform mindsets of City officials, residents, and local businesses.
Our ambitions remain high and we will continue to work in solidarity, advancing
progress with full transparency and hope for a more sustainable and resilient
future.
Yours in service,
Dr. S. Shree Dorestant
Chief Sustainability Officer
City of Greensboro
2

===== PAGE 3 =====

Table of Contents
From the Chief Sustainability Officer
Background and Introduction .............................................4-6
Organization-Wide Recommendations Progress ..........7-14
Prioritize Actions Progress .....................................................15
Energy Goals, Strategies and Actions Progress .............16-18
Community Incentives Progress .........................................19
List of Acronyms
ANSI American National Standards Institute
American Society of Heating, Refrigerating
ASHRAE
and Air-Conditioning Engineers
CSC Community Sustainability Council
GHG Greenhouse Gas
HUBs Historically Underutilized Businesses
HHW Household Hazardous Waste
IES Illuminating Engineering Society
ISC Internal Sustainability Committee
International Organization for
ISO
Standardization
LED Light-Emitting Diode
One Thousand British Thermal Units,
MBtu
often used in natural gas and other industries
MT CO Metric Tons of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent
2e
Minority- or Women-Owned Business
M/WBE
Enterprise
OSR Office of Sustainability and Resilience
REC Renewable Energy Certificate
RFP Request for Proposals
SEP Strategic Energy Plan
USGBC US Green Building Council
3

===== PAGE 4 =====

Background and Introduction
In December 2022, the Greensboro City Council as they carry out projects and establish policies
approved the Strategic Energy Plan (SEP), which that advance the SEP and beyond. The OSR is also
addresses the City of Greensboro Resolution 19- responsible for compiling, analyzing, and reporting
0770, to provide a plan for municipal operations on the many datasets and metrics that describe and
to transition to 100 percent renewable energy quantify the City’s progress toward achieving the
by 2040. The SEP includes an extensive array of goals of the SEP.
goals, recommendations, strategies, and actions to
About this Report
accomplish over a long-term period toward an energy
vision. The OSR began the SEP implementation January
2023. This report presents the first Annual Progress
The City’s Office of Sustainability and Resilience (OSR)
Report as requested by Resolution 19-0770. It depicts
is an extension of the Executive Department and
concise descriptions of the activities implemented
administrator of the SEP, providing sustainability and
during calendar year 2023, which includes the
resilience-related services for all City departments
organization-wide recommendations described
including policy, program and partnership
on pages 30 through 56 of the SEP. This report also
development to advance climate-resilient
provides a closer look at the expansion of the OSR and
operations. Therefore, the OSR will be responsible
many of the highlights experienced during 2023.
for implementing some of the SEP’s strategies and
actions and coordinating efforts by City departments
Parks & Engineering & Field
Planning
Recreation Inspections Operations
1 1 1 7
Office of Sustainability
& Resilience
Chief Sustainability Officer
S. Shree Dorestant
Environmental Compliance Sustainability Planning
Sustainability Analyst Energy Manager
& Support Manager Administrator
Michelle Gill-Moffat Sergey Kobelev
Richard Lovett Jeff Sovich
Environmental
Landfill Specialist Sustainability Analyst
Compliance Coordinator
Mike Szychowicz John Hendricks
Eddie Raynard
Sustainability
Landfill Technician
Compliance Specialist
John Ridge
Sarah Montgomery
Environmental
Compliance Analyst
Bonnie Ware
Office of Sustainability & Resilience Organizational Chart
4

===== PAGE 5 =====

City of Greensboro Resolution 19-0770
This resolution initiated development of the SEP, and called for the following actions.
Directive 1 Directive 7
Specific steps to reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 A robust and inclusive program of public
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (from City engagement, outreach, and education.
operations) by 40 percent or more from estimated
2007 levels by 2025.
Directive 2 Directive 8
Specific steps to reduce overall energy consumption Preparation of an updated GHG inventory
per square foot in all City-owned buildings by 40 every two years.
percent or more from estimated 2007 levels by
2025.
Directive 3 Directive 9
Achievable goals for transitioning to 100 percent Publication of an annual progress report.
renewable energy in City operations by 2040 from
any combination of on-site and off-site renewable
sources, including but not limited to: solar, wind,
hydroelectric, renewable energy certificates (RECs),
and green power purchases.
Directive 4 Directive 10
Recommend practices and tools to measure Establish a diverse community partnership
avoided costs and return on investment resulting comprised of city staff, residents, corporate
from implementation of renewable energy projects. partners, and other interested stakeholders, to
collaborate and provide guidance in developing the
Strategic Energy Plan.
Directive 5 Directive 11
Recommend funding strategies for projects that The Strategic Energy Plan shall be submitted for
advance established goals for GHG reduction, review and consideration by the City Council, within
energy efficiency, and renewable energy use. one year.
Directive 6 Directive 12
Recommendations for incentivizing Greensboro Officials and staff will consider all municipal
residents and businesses to achieve similar progress decisions in light of whether they will bring the City
on GHG reduction, energy efficiency, and renewable and its residents, businesses, and institutions closer
energy use, address cost burdens to ensure a just to achieving the goal of 100% renewable energy.
transition to renewable energy for all, and prioritize
at-risk populations.
5

===== PAGE 6 =====

Building Partnerships SEP Organization-Wide Recommendations
City staff began to establish diverse community
Recommendation 1
partnerships early in the development of the SEP.
Over time, the OSR staff members have continued
The City should establish a Sustainability
to expand this partnership to include a broader
Office.
cross-section of stakeholders from throughout the
community. This Annual Progress Report will be Recommendation 2
shared directly with members of the partnership to
update them on SEP implementation, which may Clean energy audit/installation/maintenance
necessitate additional meetings to discuss details contracts will give priority to Historically
and sustainable planning for future years. Underutilized Businesses (HUBs) and Minority
and Women Business Enterprises (MWBEs).
Recently, the OSR staff convened a group of City
staff representing each of the 22 departments and
Recommendation 3
10 specialized offices. This Internal Sustainability
Committee (ISC) will serve as a two-way conduit Publication of an annual progress report.
for the OSR to communicate and collaborate with Ensure energy decision are made in a way
internal stakeholders throughout the organization that promotes a just transition to renewable
about the full range of sustainability and resilience- energy for all and prioritizes vulnerable
related issues. The OSR staff will work with the ISC to communities.
develop a formal organization-wide policy that can
Recommendation 4
be incorporated into decision-making processes.
All new and substantially renovated City-
SEP TARGET
owned buildings will meet Greens Building
standards.
Objective:
Recommendation 5
100% Renewable Energy
The City fleet should be comprised of zero-
by 2040. emission vehicles by 2040.
Recommendation 6
A Note about Greenhouse Gases Establish a policy to achieve no net loss
of tree canopy throughout the City for
The SEP incorporated a GHG inventory for municipal
improved air quality, reduced urban
operations during calendar year 2019, and an
heat island effect, and ongoing carbon
examination of how this inventory compared with
sequestration.
the 2007 baseline data. Resolution 19-0770 requires
the preparation of an updated GHG inventory every Recommendation 7
two years. Accordingly, an updated GHG inventory
will be prepared in 2024 and included in the second Develop an energy and waste education
Annual Progress Report. Because updated data on program for all City staff.
GHG emissions for 2020 through 2022 is not yet
available, this Annual Progress Report does not
include an estimate of progress achieved toward the
Recommendation 8
GHG emissions goals of the SEP.
Review current vehicle and equipment
purchase/lease process for potential
efficiency improvements
6

===== PAGE 7 =====

Organization-Wide Recommendations Progress
RECOMMENDATION 1 information regarding conservation measures, City
planning, and economic developments. One of the
main objectives of the OSR is to bring awareness
The City should establish a about sustainability and resilience efforts in the City
by educating and engaging the community about
Sustainability Office.
the work of protection, management and restoration
of Earth’s natural resources. Key programs the OSR
currently manages include Household Hazardous
Waste (HHW), Food Waste Collection Pilot, and
STRATEGY 1.1 Approve and fund creation of a
LiveGreen Awards.
Sustainability Office.
Providing educational resources and continued
STRATEGY 1.2 Establish and fill Chief
learning opportunities is key to the success of
Sustainability Officer position.
any office, which is why the City exercises various
methods for educating the public such as:
STATUS: Completed • Paid advertising
• Informational materials
Dr. S. Shree Dorestant was hired as Chief • Public signage (e.g., digital kiosks)
Sustainability Officer on June 1, 2022, effectively • Electronic communication (e.g., website content,
establishing the Office of Sustainability and social media platforms and video conferencing)
Resilience (OSR) within the Executive Department. • Collaborative efforts with local stakeholders
On July 1, 2023, the OSR was expanded with an (e.g., local organizations, collegiate institutions,
internal employee transfer of 10 staff positions from developers, etc.)
the Engineering and Inspections, Field Operations, • Environmental stewardship
Parks and Recreation, and Planning Departments. • HHW hotline and GSO Collects mobile app
In addition, the OSR was approved for an inaugural
Programs
cohort of the NC Climate Action Corps, which
Household Hazardous Waste Program
allotted one full-time AmeriCorps member for
2023-24 (11-month period) to work for the City of Household Hazardous Waste (HHW) is hazardous
Greensboro in conjunction with Conserving Carolina, material that have already been used or can no
a North Carolina nonprofit organization. longer be used. The average household in the US
In November 2023, the OSR team members relocated generates about 30 pounds of HHW per year, which
from various City facilities, to a group of offices in reduces available landfill capacities. It is the City’s
the J. Edward Kitchen Operations Center in order to goal to reuse and recycle HHW material brought
optimize collaboration and effectiveness. to reduce the threat to human health and the
environment through proper disposal and recycling
The OSR’s areas of focus include:
activities.
• Education and Outreach
• Energy Management The HHW Program is open to all residents of Guilford
• Environmental Compliance and Support County and provides a safe and environmentally-
• Sustainability and Resiliency Planning sound process for properly disposing hazardous
materials. As an incentive to the residents of Guilford
Education and Outreach
County, there is no charge at the site for dropping off
Prior to the establishment of the OSR, the City had materials.
implemented numerous education and outreach Another incentive is providing a mobile community
initiatives informing local residents and others about recycling event also known as "Recycle Rodeo" twice
7

===== PAGE 8 =====

a year (spring and fall) in various Greensboro districts The initial phase of the pilot program was a
encouraging local residents to be more mindful about partnership with Triad Compost Service and the
their waste production and everyday practices. Greensboro Farmers Curb Market. It proved incredibly
successful. The second phase, a partnership with
Triad Compost Service and Deep Roots Market in
downtown Greensboro, began mid-October of 2023.
The fall phase of the pilot program has had even more
participation, which caused the City to increase the
number of collection carts (from one to three) on-site
and number of pickups per week.
Recycle Rodeo Fall 2023
For more information regarding
proper waste management, call the
City’s HHW hotline, 336-373-2196
or use the GSO Collects mobile
application on your personal mobile
device or computer to query where
certain materials should be disposed.
2023 HHW Statistics
Calls to HHW Hotline 2,972
HHW facility visitors 22,847
Total ton of HHW collected 961
Total tons of electronics collected 362
Total tons diverted from landfills 1,323
Food Waste Collection Pilot Program
Deep Roots Market -
The Food Waste Collection Pilot Program is a
Food Waste Collection Dropoff Location
public-private partnership. This program is open
to all residents of Guilford County and provides Greensboro Sustainable Landscapes Project
a sustainable method for reducing food waste in
The Greensboro Sustainable Landscapes Project is an
our local landfills when composting at home is not
educational initiative led by OSR in partnership with
feasible.
other City departments and community partners
Food Waste Diverted from Landfill to encourage residents to use environmentally-
April friendly landscaping practices to enhance the
80 lbs. natural environments in and around their homes and
May
businesses. It launched in November 2023 with its first
240 lbs. Total for 2023
2.788 tons
June
400 lbs.
Estimated
July GHG emissions
440 lbs. avoided:
August 2.34 MTCO
2e
120 lbs.
October
75 lbs.
November
2,033 lbs.
December
2,190 lbs.
8

===== PAGE 9 =====

campaign, encouraging residents and businesses to participated in or hosted 47 events with more than
“Leave the Leaves” during leaf season. 3,600 participants.
More than 200 residents pledged to leave leaves Outreach is the heart of the OSR, and collaboration
from nearly 2,300 trees on lawns or to mulch them is the magic key to achieving sustainability goals. We
instead of raking and bagging them. This process have very little time to secure a sustainable future,
reduces carbon emissions from trucking leaves to which is why we must collaborate to make more
mulching facilities, creates natural fertilizer for lawns, long-lasting solutions that are visible and tangible.
and provides food and shelter for small creatures.
Program participants received a sign to identify their
yard as a “sustainable landscape.
Ghoulash in Center City Park
Inaugural Live Green Awards
Climate Resiliency Center Grant
Live Green Awards
At the beginning of 2023, the OSR was invited
The Live Green Awards Program was launched
to collaborate with NC A&T State University on a
in 2023 as a way to celebrate and recognize the
proposal to establish a Climate Resiliency Center
Greensboro businesses, nonprofit organizations, and
(CRC) in the Piedmont Triad of North Carolina. The
individuals who apply sustainable practices in their
proposal was awarded by the Department of Energy
everyday processes and demonstrate ways to create
in early fall 2023.
a more sustainable and resilient future. The Award
The team’s proposal underscored the importance
categories are as follows:
of using GIS and other modeling studies to quantify
• Energy Wise Award
the effects of a changing climate on air quality and
• In Touch with Nature Award
urban heat, and the subsequent undue burden on
• Friend of Sustainability Award
marginalized communities in these cities.
• Waste Not Award
• Water Wise Award “We’ll be looking at climate impacts on vulnerable
• Quality of Life Award communities in the Triad area of North Carolina,
primarily Greensboro, Winston-Salem and even
Six individuals and organizations were honored at
Charlotte,” said principal investigator Dr. Solomon
the City’s Earth Day 2023 celebration. The City also
Bililign of NC A&T. “We are also trying to investigate
recognized three NCA&T students who were winners
the formation of secondary organic aerosols from the
of the Food Waste Poster competition.
interaction of biogenic emissions from plants and
Community Outreach & Events
trees in the region with anthropogenic emissions
Community outreach is an integral part of the (fossil fuel emissions) that can form ground-level
success of the OSR. We are committed to fostering ozone, which is a pollutant.”
effective relationships with our stakeholders and Tree Canopy Grant
collaborators, and connecting our residents to
In September, the City of Greensboro was granted
information and resources. During the 2023, the OSR
$825,000 by the US Department of Agriculture’s
9

===== PAGE 10 =====

Forest Service for a 5-year project that will conduct Energy Management
a tree canopy study and engage disadvantaged
The primary energy management efforts in the City of
communities of Greensboro. The grant will be overseen
Greensboro aim to reduce emissions and energy costs
by the OSR with support from other City departments.
by improving energy efficiency in City buildings and
The City’s proposal was submitted late spring 2023 operations. The Energy Management Section identifies,
and was one of 842 reviewed during the national plans, and monitors implementation of energy
competition totaling more than $6.4 billion in requests. efficiency measures to achieve the following goals:
The overall scope of the project is to plant and • Provide sustainable and resilient energy
maintain trees, combat the effects of extreme heat and consumption figures in City operations;
climatic weather events, and improve access to nature • Maximize the use of clean energy;
in US cities. The $1 billion funding is provided by the • Minimize the cost of energy;
federal Inflation Reduction Act and is considered the • Minimize GHG emissions by optimization of energy
largest climate investment in history. use;
• Reduce the environmental impacts;
• Coordinate planning and development of
sustainable and resilient city assets and operations
using the most advanced technologies, materials,
and approaches;
• Maximize resiliency and safety of the City’s energy
infrastructure;
• Monitor safety and resilience of City assets
(buildings and structures);
• Provide quantitative metrics to support the
sustainability and resilience programmatic
progress as it relates to the implementation of the
NC Arbor Day 2023 - Dudley High School SEP, which ultimately provides indicators to the
basis for energy, environmental, and resilience
decisions of the City.
City of Greensboro Highest Total Energy Use (MBtu)
TZ Osborne Water Reclama(cid:31)on WR
GDOT - Street Ligh(cid:31)ng Y
Greensboro Coliseum COL
Townsend Water Treatment WR
Greensboro Aqua(cid:31)c Center COL
Mitchell Filter Plant WR
Melvin Municipal Office Bldg EF
North Buffalo Water Reclama(cid:31)on WR
GTA - J Douglas Galyon Depot EF
Kitchen Opera(cid:31)on Center EF
Tanger Performing Arts Center COL
GTA - Opera(cid:31)ons & Maint Bldg GDOT
Greensboro Cultural Center EF
Lake Brandt Sta(cid:31)on WR
Central Library EF
Public Safety Training Facility EF
Police Headquarters EF
Police District 3 EF
Mntnc Yrd - ElBus Charger GTA
Greensboro Historical Museum EF
Simkins Pavillion @ Barber Park P&R
Reedy Fork 2 Sanitary Li(cid:30) WR
Sportsplex EF
Bledsoe Drive Sanitary Li(cid:30) WR
Closed - Natural Science Ctr Z
Jus(cid:31)ce Building EF
New Garden Rd Booster WR
US 220N @ Horsepen Creek WR
White St Phase 2 Blower SWR
Kathleen Clay Edwards Library EF
0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 120,000 140,000
10

===== PAGE 11 =====

In 2018, Energy Management established an aerial Awards program, which recognized the contributions
drone inspection service for mapping, inventory and of Greensboro businesses, non-profits, and individuals
structural condition assessment of City facilities. This in six sustainability focus areas. More recently, the
project saves resources and improves safety of the CSC and Councilmember Abuzuaiter urged the City
buildings. to demonstrate, through a clear commitment of
resources, that sustainability is essential for achieving
Environmental Compliance and Support
Greensboro's vision to be a community with endless
The Environmental Compliance and Support economic opportunities and exceptional quality
Section acts as an internal resource to assist City of life. As a result of these efforts, the Office of
departments in identifying, managing, and addressing Sustainability and Resilience expanded in July 2023
environmental challenges and impacts to reduce and was staffed with a team of 10 City employees
the City’s potential liability. With a staff having more transferred from several departments.
than 75 years of environmental experience, the
division brings professional expertise in Brownfields,
underground and aboveground storage tanks, solid
waste management, groundwater, surface water and
soil remediation, vapor intrusion, air quality, and GIS
spatial analyses together to provide comprehensive
expertise to ensure departments best manage City
resources.
Sustainability and Resiliency Planning
The Sustainability and Resiliency Planning Section
seeks to connect the community with the OSR’s
roadmap for making Greensboro a more sustainable
and resilient place to not only live, but thrive. This 2023 CSC
involves but is not limited to the development of
plans, green policies, and programming designed for
Nicole Spivey Gaines, Andrew Randall
public-facing outreach and engagement encircling
Co-Chair At-Large
sustainability and resiliency.
At-Large
Jailah White
Community Sustainability Council (CSC)
Eric Ireland, Co-Chair At-Large
The CSC is made up of nine Greensboro residents
City Council District 1
appointed by Council. Its mission is to promote Vacant
citywide sustainability initiatives. The CSC hosts Conor Baker, Vice Chair At-Large
meetings every second Monday of each month at City Council District 5
Marikay Abuzuaiter
4 pm to engage community stakeholders through
Jacques Pierre City Council Liaison
education, collaboration, and knowledge-sharing
City Council District 2
to propose sustainable policies and encourage Will Yearns
innovation. Jerry Leimenstoll Real Estate &
Established in 2008, the Greensboro Community City Council District 3 Construction
Sustainability Council was instrumental in initiating Industry Advisor
Dr. Vicki Foust
the Strategic Energy Plan (SEP) and in guiding
City Council District 4
development of the it through adoption in 2022.
In collaboration with Councilmember Marikay
Abuzuaiter, CSC's City Council liaison, the CSC
championed creation of the chief sustainability officer
position, and applauded the selection of Dorestant to
fill this role.
In 2023, the CSC successfully launched the LiveGreen
11

===== PAGE 12 =====

RECOMMENDATION 2 RECOMMENDATION 3
Clean energy audit/installation/ Ensure energy decisions are
maintenance contracts will made in a way that promotes
give priority to Historically a just transition to renewable
Underutilized Businesses energy for all and prioritizes
(HUBs) and Minority and vulnerable communities.
Women Business Enterprise
(MWBE).
STRATEGY 3.1 Establish criteria to identify the
most impacted and vulnerable
communities in the City.
STRATEGY 1.2 Energy focused Requests for
STRATEGY 3.2 Identify the most impacted and
Proposals should contain language
vulnerable communities.
indicating a preference to work with
a HUB or an MWBE.
STATUS: Initiated
STRATEGY 2.2 The Minority and Women Business
The OSR staff have gained access to an array of
Enterprise (MWBE) Office will offer
datasets and mapping tools which will be used to
workshops on how to obtain HUB/
identify impacted and vulnerable communities
MWBE Certification.
within Greensboro in order to target education,
outreach, and assistance efforts. The OSR will aim
STATUS: Initiated
to apply principles of the Justice40 Initiative in
The OSR developed a implementing the SEP.
Request for Proposals
(RFP) for contractors to
provide energy audits
(!!(
and recommendations !(
!( !(
f m C l T c ( H A s f p o in a A o e t o h f r i i e r a d c t r e r m o m g e C y a - n l a e e c u C e i t e w d s p b r t n e i d o s a n y u r a s l u e o t i i n i l g r s c r n a r r i r e e r d d l e a g , n k g w e d n s s p n R i y c q t i w e i a i n e r i a e l n u S c o l e r f g i n m g o o l i i r w n s s l r n s d i y n e c e e g i e b i c n t i n t s m l s c e m e e l h e h g e t u t o r t c a a a e r d a b y d A n E v t t t t n t o e e e e n i s o S a i a v t n r n u d H g t f s r a a e i g f m e e . i o n R s r n t T o n e i i a d A e h e n t m n a s r E e i s m s d r . s ) !(!( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( !(! !( ( !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( (!!( !( !(!(!( !( !( !( !( !( !(!(!( (!!( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !((!!(!( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( (! !(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( (! !( !( !( ! !(!( ( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( (! !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( (! !( (!!( !( (!!( !( !( !( !( !( (!!( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( ( !( ! !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( (! !( !( !( !( !( !( !( ( ( ! ! !( !( (! ! !( ( !( !( !(!(!( !(! !( ( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( (! !( !( !( !( !( !( (! !( !( ( !( ! !( !( !( !(!( !( !( (! !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( (! !( !( !( !( !( !( !( (! !( !( (! !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( (! !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( (! !( !(!(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( (! !(!(!( ! !( ( !( !( (!!( (! !( !( (! !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !(!((!!(!( !( !( !( (! !( ! !( ( !( !( !( !( !( !(!( (! !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !(!(!( !( !( !( !( (! !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( (! !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !(!(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !(!(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( ! !( ( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( !(!( (! !( !( (! !( !( !( !(!( !( !( (! !(!( (! !( !( !(!( !( !(!( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( (! ( !( ! !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( (! !( !( !( !( (! !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !(!(!( !( !(!( !(!( !(!(!(!(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !( !((! !( !( !( !( !( !((! !( !( (! !(!( !(!(!(!( !(!(!( !( !( (! (! !( !(!( !( !( !( !( ! !( !( ( !( !( !(!(!( !(!( !( !(!( ! !( ( !( ( ( ! !!(!( !( !( !((!!( !( !( !(!( (! !( !( !( !(!(!( !( !( !(!(!( !( !( !(! !( (!( !( !( !(!(!( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( (!(!!( (! !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( (! !( !( !( !( !( !( (!!( !( !( !( !( !( (! !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( (! !( !( (! !( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( (! !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !(!(!( !(!( !( (!!( !( (! !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( (! !( !(!( !( !( !(!( !(!(!( !( !( !( !(!(!(!(
the MWBE office to ensure !( !(!( !( !( !( !(!( !( !( !( !( !( !( !( !(!( !(
an equitable process is
performed.
!( !( !(
City Utility Accounts Natural Gas Electricity/NatGas Electricity
Major Roads CEJST Districts CITY LIMIT
12

===== PAGE 13 =====

RECOMMENDATION 4 RECOMMENDATION 5
All New and Substantially The City fleet should be
Renovated City-Owned comprised of zero-emission
Buildings will meet Green vehicles by 2040.
Building standards.
STRATEGY 5.1 Create a Sustainable Fleet
Policy.
STRATEGY 4.1 Use the ANSI/ASHRAE/USGBC/
IES Standard 189.1, Standard for
STATUS: Initiated
the Design of High-Performance
Green Buildings except Low- The Greensboro Transit
Rise Residential Buildings, or Agency developed a zero-
comparable standard for all new emission fleet transition
and substantially renovated City- plan for its vehicles.
owned buildings. Information from this plan,
any previous assessments,
STATUS: Ongoing and a fleet efficiency study
will be used to influence a
The OSR staff have begun recommending use of
Sustainable Fleet Policy.
applicable Energy Star and ISO 50000 certifications
or other comparable standard in Technical Review
Committee site plan reviews of new and substantially
renovated City-owned buildings.
13

===== PAGE 14 =====

RECOMMENDATION 6 RECOMMENDATION 7
Establish a policy to achieve
Develop an Energy and Water
no net loss of the tree canopy
Education Program for all City
throughout the City, for
staff.
improved air quality, reduced
urban heat island effect, and
STRATEGY 7.1 People & Culture Department
ongoing carbon sequestration.
development of three courses:
Electricity Conservation, Water
Conservation, and Eco-Driving.
STRATEGY 6.1 Collaborate with Greensboro
Beautiful, Sierra Club, Planning STATUS: Initiated
Department, City Arborist, Housing
Staff in the Equipment Services Division of the
& Neighborhood Development,
Financial & Administrative Services Department,
the NeighborWoods Program, and
People & Culture, and the OSR have begun research
other stakeholders to develop a 20-
and scoping for development of an internal idling-
year strategy to maintain the tree
reduction training course.
canopy.
STRATEGY 6.2 Conduct a baseline tree canopy
audit, followed by an update every
five years.
RECOMMENDATION 8
STATUS: Initiated
Review current vehicle and
The OSR applied for and was awarded a grant of
$825,000 from the US Department of Agriculture equipment purchase/lease
Forest Service that will be used to prepare an
process for potential efficiency
updated tree canopy inventory and management
improvements.
plan.
STRATEGY 8.1 Evaluate departmental sharing
of specialized vehicles and
infrequently used equipment.
STATUS: Initiated
Staff in the OSR initiated internal discussions
for closer evaluations of the vehicle inventory,
equipment purchase and lease processes, and will
have an update in the 2024 progress report.
14

===== PAGE 15 =====

Prioritize Actions
Immediate Actions (Years 1-5)
Note: Items that do not have significant action to report this year are not ACTION 12 Audit water and wastewater equipment
included. and implement efficiency measures suggested by
ACTION 1 Adopt City of Greensboro the audit.
recommendations.
STATUS: Ongoing
STATUS: Initiated The Water Resources Department prepared an
Implementation has been initiated on Organization- engineering study of its water and wastewater
Wide Recommendations 1-7. equipment, which was completed in 2021.
Replacement of equipment is now prioritized based
on the energy efficiency measurements from the
ACTION 4 Establish criteria to identify the most study.
impacted and vulnerable communities in the City.
STATUS: Ongoing ACTION 26 Review land use ordinances and building
As applicable, the OSR staff will use an array of permit policies for obstacles to community solar
datasets, analysis, and mapping tools to identify installation.
impacted and vulnerable communities within
STATUS: Ongoing
Greensboro in order to target education, outreach,
and assistance efforts. Greensboro was designated SolSmart Bronze in 2021.
The application process included an extensive review
of the Land Development Ordinance and permitting
ACTION 8 Implement water/energy efficiency projects requirements. Additional actions, including policy
for lower-wealth residents. amendments, are needed to earn Silver or Gold
designation.
STATUS: Initiated
The OSR submitted a proposal for funding through
the US Department of Energy’s Energy Efficiency
and Conservation Block Grant program. At least 40
percent of the benefits of proposed projects will flow
to disadvantaged communities. Proposed projects
will be finalized in 2024.
15

===== PAGE 16 =====

Energy Goals, Strategies and Actions Progress
Energy Use by Department
Water Resources Transportation
Department Department
GOAL 2 GOAL 1
Reduce electricity demand by Increase LED streetlamp
40% from 2007 to 2025. conversion by 5% per year.
STRATEGY 2.1 Increase equipment efficiency. STRATEGY 1.1 Increase the conversion of street
lighting to LED.
A2.1.1 Audit water and wastewater
equipment. A1.1.1 Work with Duke Energy to ensure
conversion meets the yearly goal.
A2.1.2 Implement efficiency measures
suggested by audit. STATUS: Ongoing
STATUS: Ongoing The Transportation Department continues to
coordinate with Duke Energy on LED conversion of
The Water Resources Department prepared an
the 27,000+ streetlamps and other public outdoor
engineering study of its water and wastewater
lighting owned and managed by Duke. As of October
equipment in 2021. Replacement of equipment
2023, 39.6 percent of all lamps used LEDs, up from
is now prioritized in the Capital Improvements
15.2 percent in 2019. This represents an average pace
Program based on the energy efficiency
of 6.1 percent per year.
measurements from the study.
Solar and LED lighting on the Downtown Greenway
16

===== PAGE 17 =====

BUILDINGS MANAGED BY Police
Engineering
Department
& Inspections
GOAL 1
GOAL 1
Reduce gasoline consumption
Reduce electricity demand by by 5% per year.
40% from 2007 to 2025.
STRATEGY 1.2 Fleet conversion to electric vehicles.
STRATEGY 1.1 Increase building energy efficiency
(1st Tier buildings). STATUS: Initiated
A1.1.1 Perform energy audits on buildings. Staff from the OSR, the Equipment Services Division
of Financial and Administrative Services Department
STATUS: Initiated
and the Transportation Department attended the
The OSR developed a Request for Proposals (RFP) Electrify the South workshop to learn about strategies
for contractors to provide energy audits and and resources available to local governments for
recommendations for energy conservation measures transitioning their fleets to electric vehicles.
in selected City buildings that are its largest energy
Staff from the Environmental Compliance and Support
consumers. The work will be done in compliance with
Section of the OSR is currently analyzing the fuel
ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and
consumption logs for all City vehicles and plans to
Air-Conditioning Engineers) standards and state and
work with Equipment Services Division to provide
federal requirements. This process will include a team of
information identifying the least efficient vehicles,
City representatives including a member from the MWBE
which will assist with the lease replacement to acquire
office to ensure an equitable process is performed.
more fuel-efficient means of transportation.
17

===== PAGE 18 =====

Transportation Solid Waste & Recycling
Department Department
GOAL 1 GOAL 1
Reduce gasoline consumption Reduce diesel consumption by
by 5% per year. 5% per year.
STRATEGY 1.1 Fleet conversion to electric vehicles. STRATEGY 1.3 Fleet conversion to electric vehicles.
STATUS: Initiated STATUS: Initiated
Staff from the OSR, the Equipment Services Staff from the OSR, the Equipment Services
Division of Financial and Administrative Services Division of Financial and Administrative Services
Department and the Transportation Department Department and the Transportation Department
attended the Electrify the South workshop to learn attended the Electrify the South workshop to learn
about strategies and resources available to local about strategies and resources available to local
governments for transitioning their fleets to electric governments for transitioning their fleets to electric
vehicles. vehicles.
Staff from the Environmental Compliance and Staff from the Environmental Compliance and
Support Section of the OSR is currently analyzing the Support Section of the OSR is currently analyzing the
fuel consumption logs for all City vehicles and plans fuel consumption logs for all City vehicles and plans
to work with Equipment Services Division to provide to work with Equipment Services Division to provide
information identifying the least efficient vehicles, information identifying the least efficient vehicles,
which will assist with the lease replacement to which will assist with the lease replacement to
acquire more fuel-efficient means of transportation. acquire more fuel-efficient means of transportation.
White Street Landfill renewable energy facility
18

===== PAGE 19 =====

Transportation Community
Department Incentives Progress
GOAL 1 GOAL 1
Reduce diesel consumption by Incentivize Greensboro residents
5% per year. and businesses to achieve similar
progress on GHG reduction,
STRATEGY 1.3 Fleet conversion to electric vehicles. energy efficiency, and renewable
energy use as the City.
STATUS: Initiated
Greensboro Transit Agency, managed by the Transit
STRATEGY 1.2 Remove obstacles to clean, renewable
Department, has completed a zero-emissions fleet
energy installation, and energy-
transition plan.
efficiency projects.
STRATEGY 1.4 Support implementation of GTA STATUS: Initiated
Mobility Greensboro 2040 Plan to
The OSR submitted a proposal for funding through
increase ridership throughout the
the US Department of Energy’s Energy Efficiency
City.
and Conservation Block Grant program. At least
STATUS: Initiated 40 percent of the benefits of proposed projects
will flow to disadvantaged communities. Proposed
The Greensboro Transit Agency is currently
projects will be finalized in 2024.
developing a new long range transit plan, GoBORO,
to help achieve Greensboro's goal of becoming a car- A1.2.1 Review land use ordinances
optional city by 2045. and building permit policies for
obstacles.
A1.2.3 Obtain SolSmart Designation.
STATUS: Initiated
Greensboro was designated SolSmart Bronze in
2021. The application process included an extensive
review of the Land Development Ordinance and
permitting requirements. Additional actions,
including policy amendments are needed to earn
Silver or Gold designation.
19

===== PAGE 20 =====

www.greensboro-nc.gov/sustainability
PO Box 3136 • Greensboro, NC 27402-3136